[Music]
the deans real-life cheeky monkeys
baboons are boisterous playful
characters with personality to spare
living in large groups or troops of 50
or so individuals you might be surprised
to learn that baboons aren't actually
territorial instead they roam around
their home range most often following
their stomachs although they have
frightening Lea long canines they are
opportunistic feeders eating mainly
fruit bark roots and seeds but they will
eat meat if they can get hold of it
they'll try their luck with catching
birds rodents and sometimes even young
antelope for all their troublesome
reputation baboons are very devoted
parents but how does baboon parenting
work we're going to explore baboon
society and find out the secrets behind
the success of this plucky primates
[Music]
baboons share 94% of their DNA with us
and like us they are highly intelligent
and sociable animals they have an
impressive repertoire of language have
been recently found to use up to five
vowel sounds this puts per Boone's up
there is one of the most advanced animal
linguists known to science
their tongues also contain the same
muscles as human tongues meaning they
can make the precise movements required
to form the sounds of language just like
us baboon troops are made up of related
females and their babies along with a
smaller number of mature males there's a
very definite ranking system which is
strictly followed violent consequences
are likely for monkeys who step out of
line if they get caught just like we saw
with hyenas the female baboons inherit
their rank from their mothers but the
mature males in the group are not
usually related and they compete with
each other for access to the females
forming their own harem within a troop
the hierarchy in males is constantly
reinforced not only by violent means
like fighting but also through
friendlier activities like grooming and
monkeying around
baby baboons are dependent on their
mothers for the first few months of
their lives they cling tightly to their
fur and often ride on her back jockey
style they not venture far away from her
until they're about ten months old then
they'll start to spend more and more
time playing alone or with other
youngsters gradually daring to leave
their mother side
sometimes adult males do take on the
parenting this might seem selfless but
it can reap rewards for the males two
males caring for babies are less often
threatened by the males this can be an
advantage the lower-ranking more
henpecked males of the troop but it
doesn't protect them altogether and it
can be very dangerous for a baby baboon
to get caught in the crossfire but for
babies especially orphans the pros
outweigh the cons the male will not only
protect his youngster from rival males
but also from predators like lions and
hyenas al young baboons need every Ally
they can find
[Music]